# Project Title: Default-risk-prediction

Default risk assessment is of utmost importance for the financial institutions to avoid lending money to financially unstable and credit-unworthy borrowers. Using risk analysis one can evaluate the capacity of a borrower to reach the financial obligations. Home Credit is a financial organization which provides loans to people with little to no credit history. While this is a great step towards including a large un-banked population into safer loan practice, it is also important to predict their repayment ability to avoid greater financial loss.  To do this Home Credit hosted a default risk prediction contest on Kaggle. Numerous historical information were provided as input features including amount of the installment, the annuity, the total credit amount, and various categorical features like what was the loan for, demographic information about the customers, gender, their job type, their income, ratings about their house etc. The objective is to employ machine learning algorithms using all those input features in order to predict if a customer will default on their loan in the future. The previous works showed that neural networks are more accurate, flexible and robust than conventional statistical methods for the assessment of credit risk. However, in this study I will be using random forest, and LightGBM algorithms to predict the default risk based on clients’ attributes, and compare their prediction accuracy. The performance of each method will be compared in terms of their ability to predict the default risk using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) area under the curve (AUC). The aim is to build ML algorithms to achieve an ROC AUC value of atleast 0.79.
The complete dataset required for this project can be obtained from the kaggle site page. The entire project is presented in 4 major parts (nootbooks). Python 3.6.4 version has been used for coding.

[Data wrangling](https://github.com/manasi-mahish/Default-risk-prediction/blob/master/default%20risk_data_wrangling_feature_eng.ipynb): Data preparation for exploratory analysis and modeling, including missing value & anomaly replacement, correlation evaluation, feature engineering, etc.

[Model prediction 1](https://github.com/manasi-mahish/Default-risk-prediction/blob/master/default_risk_baseline_prediction.ipynb): Predictive analysis using features only from application train and application test data.

[Model prediction 2](https://github.com/manasi-mahish/Default-risk-prediction/blob/master/Default_risk_primary%20feature%20engg.ipynb): Predictive analysis using features only from application train and application test data, engineered features are used.

[Model prediction 3](https://github.com/manasi-mahish/Default-risk-prediction/blob/master/default%20risk%20prediction%20final.ipynb): Predictive analysis using features from all 8 dataset after appropriate cleaning and joining with main application table, engineered features are included.

Presentation slides for this project is avaiable [here](https://github.com/manasi-mahish/Default-risk-prediction/blob/master/Default%20Risk%20Analysis.pptx).
